# Algorithm Description Document

Author: Lauren Dulgarian

Date: 11/4/23

## 1. Name

String Matcher

## 2. Abstract
The code defines two methods, BuildTable and Match, for efficiently finding all occurrences of a given pattern within a text based string matching algorithm. The BuildTable method constructs a transition table that encodes pattern matching information, and the Match method utilizes this table to identify all occurrences of the pattern in the input text.

## 3. Methodology
The code contains two key methods: "BuildTable" and "Match." "BuildTable" constructs a transition table, which encodes pattern matching information. It takes the input pattern and allowed characters. This method uses nested loops to build state transitions and appends them to the transition table. "Match" identifies occurrences of the pattern in the input text using the transition table generated by "BuildTable." It iterates through the text, updating the state based on each character. When the state matches the final state, the code records the current index as a successful match. The method returns a list of these indices where the pattern is found in the text. In summary, this code efficiently locates a specific pattern in text, and the output is a list of indices where the pattern is successfully matched.

## 4. Pseudocode

```
BUILD-TABLE(pattern, inputs)
    table = list of dictionaries
    for k in range(length of pattern + 1):
        map = empty dictionary
        for letter in inputs:
            matched_so_far_letter = concatenate pattern[:k] with letter
            i = minimum of (k + 1) and length of pattern
            while i is greater than 0 and not matched_so_far_letter ends with pattern[:i]:
                decrement i by 1
            add (letter, i) to map
        append map to table
    return table

MATCH(text, pattern, inputs)
    table = build_table(pattern, inputs)
    match_state = length of table - 1
    state = 0
    results = empty list
    for index in range(length of text):
        state = table[state][text[index]] (if not found, set it to 0)
        if state is equal to match_state:
            append index to results
    return results
```

## 5. Inputs & Outputs

List only inputs and outputs for the MATCH function. 

**Inputs:** `text` - The input text in which you want to search for the pattern.

`pattern` - The pattern you want to find within the text.

`inputs` - A list of unique characters that are allowed to be used in the pattern and are used to build the transition table.

**Outputs:** `results` -  the list that stores the positions where the pattern is found in the text

## 6. Analysis Results

* Worst Case: $O(m^3r+n)$

* Best Case: $O(m^3r+n)$

